---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-09-29
title: DID WG Topic Call on Abstract Data Model and Unregistered Properties — 2020-09-29
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-09-29-did-topic",
        "name": "DID WG Topic Call on Abstract Data Model and Unregistered Properties — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Topic Call on Abstract Data Model and Unregistered Properties",
        "dateCreated": "2020-09-29",
        "datePublished": "2020-09-30",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Topic Call on Abstract Data Model and Unregistered Properties",
            "startDate": "2020-09-29",
            "endDate": "2020-09-29",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "brent zundel"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Drummond Reed"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Holt"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Buchner"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tobias Looker"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dmitri Zagidulin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# DID WG Topic Call on Abstract Data Model and Unregistered Properties — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-09-29

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Sep/0024.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/09/29-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Brent Zundel, Justin Richer, Jonathan Holt, Orie Steele, Markus Sabadello, Adrian Gropper, Drummond Reed, Daniel Buchner, Dave Longley, Tobias Looker, Dmitri Zagidulin, Shigeya Suzuki, Daniel Burnett

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** brent zundel, Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Drummond Reed

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Brent Zundel:** This is a very important topic. It could hold up CR.  
… looking for a willingness to "hold your nose" and see if there is something you can live with  
… let's get started. There was an email sent after the invite for this meeting with a joint proposal, plus there are several PRs on the topic of the abstract data model (ADM) and representations  

**Manu Sporny:** suggests that Markus or Justin start us off  
… given that not necessarily everyone has read the ADM proposal from Justin, Markus, and Drummond  

-> See the [Proposal of Justin, Markus, and Drummond](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rSfpfRrswTCCpCe_I5AWI1beJqYX2wTG34r19TswxyM/).

**Markus Sabadello:** will give a quick introduction to the ADM proposal. It goes back to the Amsterdam F2F...  
… there we decided we would use an ADM as a way to support multiple representations  
… recently we have had a number of issues and PRs around the handling of different properties  
… for example the handling of `@context` in JSON-only documents  
… the main purpose of the ADM proposal was to propose a specific process for producing and consuming based the ADM  
… because it's easier to think about and specify how to produce and consume based on the ADM  
… we believe it is applicable to current and future representations  

**Justin Richer:** Our goal with this proposal was to have exact clarity about what it means to go into and out of a specification representation  
… there was confusion about this  
… so the purpose of this document was to clarify what we discussed (and he thought we agreed on) in Amsterdam  
… and to put some "real teeth" on the process definition  
… the process starts with an ADM and converts it into a concrete representation.  
… consumption is the inverse of that  
… so the document was intended to define that production and consumption process very clearly  
… before we dive into specifics, one key point: if you are not going from a representation into an ADM, you are not doing "consumption"  

**Justin Richer:** this document tries to define the boundary between a representation and the ADM, not other things a client might want to do with an representation  

**Orie Steele:** Thanks to Justin. The last part of that was very clear. It's helpful to focus on the movement between an ADM and a representation.  
… my first question for the group is: "When does production happen and what software does it?"  
… I've seen several understandings of this  
… I am wondering whether DID method code do "production"?  
… specifically I am talking about "resolve" and "resolveStream"  
… or does other software code, such as resolvers, do "production"?  

**Dmitri Zagidulin:** Eager to hear the response of Justin  

**Justin Richer:** The answer to the question about resolvers is that it depends on which part of the process you are talking about  
… first part is resolving to the ADM, second part is resolving to the concrete representation (called "bytestream" in the ADM proposal)  
… the resolver can be involved in either process  
… so if you are calling a resolver to get the ADM version, you would be getting the consumption phase  
… if you are calling for a representation, then someone else is doing production to get you that representation  
… if you are going from one to another process in memory, you can just use the ADM  

**Dmitri Zagidulin:** wonders if it would make sense to have these definitions of production and consumption  
… because literally "zero implementations" are actually doing this today  
… but, aside from the issues he has with the ADM proposal, he's worried that its getting away from helping developers actually write libraries  
… that ties into what Justin said about what folks are actually doing—that they may not be what developers are actually doing  

**Manu Sporny:** has several proposals that could clarify where we have agreement already  
… the second point was that Manu wanted to let others on the queue to add something before the proposals  

**Markus Sabadello:** To his mind, production or consumption happens every time a representation is produced or consumed  
… among other things, production is called when you call the resolveStream function  
… consumption is called whenever you call to obtain a property defined in the ADM  

**Dave Longley:** This discussion is helpful. I have been thinking in terms of applications consuming representations.  
… so we need a "Transformation" section of the spec.  
… he was concerned that this process needs to be followed for all DID documents  
… thinks is it good to provide clarity about what the final result must be, but does not prescribe the only way to get there  

**Justin Richer:** One of the things that worried him about "transformations" is the sense that representations might be transformed from one into the other directly  
… but all the spec really needs to say is how any one representation type needs to go into and out of the ADM as a well-defined model  
… if we are not defining such an abstract data model, then there is no "DID document model"  
… this is the ultimate acid test: that I can interoperate at this layer, and not at the layer of what got sent over the wire  
… otherwise we are just creating a bunch of similar-looking silos that do not actually interoperate  

**Jonathan Holt:** This is reminiscent of the time he spent on HL7 genomics. They could not agree on zero-based encoding of a genome.  
… so we really need to get a "beneficial occupancy" of a data model that is "implementable"  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to agree with jonathan_holt -- this getting very close to an academic discussion that doesn't affect implementations.

**Jonathan Holt:** even the FHIR model is the 80/20 rule. For example, even the Boolean model is extensible. You can add a qualifier to it.  
… this spec is a lot simpler. And I understand the need for the formal logic.  

> *Daniel Burnett:* +1 that elegance is nice but not necessary, only interop of real implementations

**Jonathan Holt:** I can see the need for numbers, but not sure what to do about that.  
… there has to be a simpler approach  

> *Justin Richer:* +1 to not overdoing the data model, but remember that's what we said we're making, right?

**Dave Longley:** I agree with what Jonathan just said. I've worked on ADMs for a number of specs. They seek clarity and precision.  
… The point of that clarity is to be clear about the semantics of the data in a representation. But if we become prescriptive...  
… people will avoid the spec and doing their own thing  
… if the spec exposes developers to too many layers or abstractions that they don't want to get involved with  

**Manu Sporny:** this remind him of HL7 and also of the early RDF and JSON-LD specs  
… it was argued that they needed to do much more, and JSON-LD chose to do much less to make it implementable  
… so Manu wants to do several proposals  

> *Orie Steele:* unclear

**Jonathan Holt:** Does that mean that performing a transformation before or after "production" or "consumption" is okay?  

> *Orie Steele:* +1 to doing key transformations in the ADM

**Justin Richer:** If you have to move a property into the ADM or out of the ADM, it's in the production/consumption process. Otherwise it's outside of it.  

**Dave Longley:** An example is creating a public CWK property that might have a different representation in CBOR vs. JSON-LD vs. JSON. How would this proposal deal with that?  

**Manu Sporny:** this proposal doesn't deal with that  
… the next one deals with that  

**Justin Richer:** Wants to clarify that the ADM proposal that Justin and Markus and Drummond wrote up, it should not affect what Dave asked about  
… it would just call for each representation's production and consumption rules to deal with that data type  

**Manu Sporny:** is anyone else confused about what "production" and "consumption" rules are?  

> *Dmitri Zagidulin:* +1 to ask

**Manu Sporny:** is there confusion?  

> *Manu Sporny:* I'm clear on what production/consumption is, I think.

> *Jonathan Holt:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1 i don't know if i said what i thought it was if Justin would sign off on it

**Brent Zundel:** is the question whether our definitions are aligned?  

**Jonathan Holt:** The question is: "What is the ADM and how do we represent that?" The clearer that it, the easier it that conversion would be.  
… so we should look at the CDDL model because it's more concrete than a full-blown ADM  

> *Justin Richer:* fwiw I'm fine if we base on CDDL instead of Infra, but we just need a clear and consistent base that we can also tie our specific types to

**Jonathan Holt:** what he learned from talking to CBOR experts is that this has been a challenge in other specs as well  
… such as where folks want to do JSON but add CWKs  

> *Orie Steele:* I would also prefer CDDL at this point

> *Orie Steele:* agree we need to just do 1 though

> *Manu Sporny:* CDDL is syntax only... it's not abstract

**Jonathan Holt:** and the advice was to stick with the native format as much as possible  

> *Manu Sporny:* it would be a move away from an abstract data model, IIUC

> *Justin Richer:* jonathan_holt: would it be fair to add JWK as a type and define CWK as the encoding in CBOR?

**Jonathan Holt:** so, even though I'm a big CBOR fan, I'm not actually trying to dive deeper than that  

> *Justin Richer:* jonathan_holt: so not "key material" in general but specifically just the JWKs

**Jonathan Holt:** the goal of the CDDL is a clear way to encode and decode out of specific representations  

> **Proposed resolution: A DID Method MUST NOT add, modify, or remove from the production or consumption rules for a representation.** *(Manu Sporny)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Orie Steele:* +1

> *Manu Sporny:* +1

> *Justin Richer:* -q

> *Justin Richer:* +1

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1

> *Brent Zundel:* +1

> *Drummond Reed:* +1

> *Tobias Looker:* +1

> *Daniel Buchner:* +1

> *Dmitri Zagidulin:* +0 (I strongly suspect everybody here disagrees on what production/consumption means)

> *Dave Longley:* +1 if i think about production/consumption in terms of transformation of representations only, yes, because DID methods have no business messing with that

> *Adrian Gropper:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: A DID Method MUST NOT add, modify, or remove from the production or consumption rules for a representation.***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *Jonathan Holt:* 0, I think we need to start at clearly defining the ADM

**Manu Sporny:** the next proposal is to effectively say, "A DID method can specify whatever it wants" in pre-production or post-production  

> *Dave Longley:* justin_r, that's becoming clear to me that that was your goal, but only just recently -- i think we need some different language, not sure what it should be

**Manu Sporny:** so it can do what the method feels is required for security, privacy, consistency, etc.  

> *Justin Richer:* dlongley: that's fair, words is hard

> *Dave Longley:* yup

**Manu Sporny:** so this would enable DID methods to do that kind of processing OUTSIDE of the production or consumption rules  

**Justin Richer:** Just wants the proposal to be specific that these operations are on the ADM for the DID document.  

**Manu Sporny:** that's what was meant  


**Justin Richer:** A DID method may process the ADM on pre-production or post-production but not in the process.  

> *Tobias Looker:* Is it post-production or post-consumption @manu. Sorry your latest proposal clarifies. I was reading the scribed comment from you

> *Justin Richer:* markus_sabadello: yeah I agree that was the implication but I'd rather not imply things when we can write them down

**Markus Sabadello:** Has a similar question as Justin. Should the proposal say that the DID method can define operations on the ADM -- pre-production and post-consumption  

**Orie Steele:** Similar question: do we really need such a proposal? I assume you can only perform valid operations on an ADM.  

> *Justin Richer:* +1 to restating the obvious because it's not always obvious :)

**Manu Sporny:** wanted to run the proposal based on the reword  
… because we haven't necessarily been explicit about this  
… so it is good to have a proposal  

> **Proposed resolution: A DID Method may process the abstract data model in pre-production or post-consumption to enforce DID Method-specific rules and transformations.** *(Manu Sporny)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Manu Sporny:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Orie Steele:* +1

> *Drummond Reed:* +1

> *Justin Richer:* +1

> *Brent Zundel:* +1

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1

> *Tobias Looker:* +1

> *Daniel Buchner:* +1

> *Jonathan Holt:* 0

> *Dmitri Zagidulin:* +1 (though I agree with dlongley that 'post-consumption' is somewhat confusing)

> *Adrian Gropper:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: A DID Method may process the abstract data model in pre-production or post-consumption to enforce DID Method-specific rules and transformations.***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

> *Justin Richer:* dmitriz: I agree with the confusing terminology, but I think bikeshedding later would be better if we all know what's up for now, but that's me.

> *Dmitri Zagidulin:* justin_r: sounds good

**Manu Sporny:** This proposal allows an unregistered property to survive a journey into and out of the ADM.  

> *Orie Steele:* selfissued, wish you were here for this.

**Justin Richer:** I agree with the thrust of the proposal. However this can be confusing because that's what goes into the ADM.  

> *Orie Steele:* agree with justin's interpretation

> *Orie Steele:* of this

**Justin Richer:** so it's susceptible to the proposal we just passed, which allows the DID method to make changes to the ADM  

**Markus Sabadello:** I agree with the intention of the proposal. We want this "permissionless extensibility" in any representation.  
… however what we said was, for unregistered properties, there's no guarantee of being able to be rendered in all representations.  
… a property may not be able to be preserved if it cannot be mapped to an abstract data type  

**Adrian Gropper:** It sounds like this might have privacy implications  

**Manu Sporny:** Does not believe it has privacy implications.  
… it is a general design goal and folks may propose exceptions  
… so if a very specific case comes up, we can make an exception  

**Justin Richer:** We are not just talking about the values of the properties, but also the names.  
… this is for example where JSON-LD multiple contexts come in  
… so it can do a semantic "key-by-default"  

> *Justin Richer:* oh and cbor numbered keys

> *Justin Richer:* (for objects)

**Jonathan Holt:** That's also the potential vulnerability  
… this issue about "foobar" not being there is not a problem of itself, as that's good for avoiding loss of information  
… so is the proposal that unknown properties are just passed through, and it's up to the other end to decide  
… so it's really about how we are going to handle extensions  

> *Justin Richer:* +1 to this, an implementation can have its own internal mapping for an abstract data type that isn't registered publicly

> *Justin Richer:* "unknown" and "unregistered" properties were meant to be different but the words are confusing in this context

> **Proposed resolution: The Working Group supports a general "preserve by default" design goal for the abstract data model. This means that a general rule for the abstract data model is to preserve properties that are not registered or documented anywhere, such as "foo": "bar", as long as the property name and property value datatype can be cleanly and losslessly consumed from a representation into the abstract data model and produced from the abstract data model to a representation. The WG may specify exceptions to this general design goal.** *(Manu Sporny)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Justin Richer:* +1 this is all about extensions and interop between extensions

> *Drummond Reed:* +1

> *Orie Steele:* +1

> *Manu Sporny:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Justin Richer:* +1 (given that there are some subtleties to implementing it)

> *Tobias Looker:* +1

> *Adrian Gropper:* +1

> *Brent Zundel:* +1

> *Jonathan Holt:* 0, I still have security concerns

> *Dmitri Zagidulin:* +1

> *Daniel Buchner:* +1

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1 (but depending on the involved representations it may not always be possible to preserve unregistered properties)

> ***Resolution #3: The Working Group supports a general "preserve by default" design goal for the abstract data model. This means that a general rule for the abstract data model is to preserve properties that are not registered or documented anywhere, such as "foo": "bar", as long as the property name and property value datatype can be cleanly and losslessly consumed from a representation into the abstract data model and produced from the abstract data model to a representation. The WG may specify exceptions to this general design goal.***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

**Drummond Reed:** "What a harmonious group we have today."  

> *Orie Steele:* thanks all!

**Brent Zundel:** thanks for everyone listening closely and staying on topic.  

> *Drummond Reed:* POPCORN!!!

---


### 1. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): A DID Method MUST NOT add, modify, or remove from the production or consumption rules for a representation.
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): A DID Method may process the abstract data model in pre-production or post-consumption to enforce DID Method-specific rules and transformations.
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): The Working Group supports a general "preserve by default" design goal for the abstract data model. This means that a general rule for the abstract data model is to preserve properties that are not registered or documented anywhere, such as "foo": "bar", as long as the property name and property value datatype can be cleanly and losslessly consumed from a representation into the abstract data model and produced from the abstract data model to a representation. The WG may specify exceptions to this general design goal.
