---
layout: minutes
date: 2024-08-15
title: Decentralized Identifier Working Group — 2024-08-15
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2024/2024-08-15-did",
        "name": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group — Minutes",
        "about": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group",
        "dateCreated": "2024-08-15",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2024-08-19",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group",
            "startDate": "2024-08-15",
            "endDate": "2024-08-15",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Gabe Cohen"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Will Abramson"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kevin Dean"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "andres"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Decentralized Identifier Working Group — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2024-08-15

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2024Aug/0015.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2024/08/15-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Gabe Cohen, Ivan Herman, Will Abramson, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Benjamin Young, Kevin Dean, andres, Manu Sporny

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Gabe Cohen

**Scribe(s):** Benjamin Young, Manu Sporny

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Agenda Review, Introductions.
{: #section1}

**Gabe Cohen:** agenda review.  
… we'll talk about the controller document.  
… no special topic call next week as we do not have a topic yet.  
… if you have one, please let us know on the mailing list.  
… also we'll talk TPAC and doc organizing.  
… and issue processing toward the end.  
… anything else?  

### 2. Controller Document.
{: #section2}

**Gabe Cohen:** we've talked about this document before.  
… it's at the VC WG.  
… we look forward to collaborating with them.  

### 3. APAC Call Announcement.
{: #section3}

**Gabe Cohen:** minutes are available from last week. They're approved since no objections.  

> *Gabe Cohen:* Thursday 5-6 pm US Pacific Time.

> *Gabe Cohen:* - Thursday 8-9 pm US Eastern Time.

> *Gabe Cohen:* - Friday 0200-0300 Central European Time.

> *Gabe Cohen:* - Friday 8-9 am Hong Kong.

**Gabe Cohen:** we've settled on a Thursday/Friday call.  
… first Thursday in each month.  
… hope you can make it.  
… and we'll send out notifications.  

### 4. TPAC Topic Announcement.
{: #section4}

**Gabe Cohen:** the calendar is already updated.  

_See github issue [did-wg#57](https://github.com/w3c/did-wg/issues/57)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-wg/57 -->



**Gabe Cohen:** TPAC will be here before you know it.  
… please add to that issue if you have presentations you'd like to make.  
… even if you just have idea you'd like to see presented, please share.  
… We're scheduled on Monday and Tuesday.  
… we plan to do a group dinner Monday evening.  
… if we have a sponsor, it can be a more formal thing.  
… but even without one, we'll find a place to meet up and pay for our own meals.  

### 5. DID Core update vs. new @context Discussion.
{: #section5}

_See github issue [did-core#850](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/850)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/850 -->



**Gabe Cohen:** one issue that's come up so far...  
… there are some terms that we'd like to update.  
… so do we make a new context to be used instead? add an additional context? or amend the existing one?  

**Manu Sporny:** amending the current context is possible if a bit fraught.  
… we've been trying to follow a best practice of only amending contexts for security vulnerabilities.  
… this situation is not a security issue...just establishing new terms from the Controller Document from the VC WG.  
… we can do this in a non-disruptive way.  
… by publishing a v1.1 context.  
… it's arguable if this is a new feature or not.  
… we do specify a v1 context in the spec.  
… we would be updating the text to say in future the v1.1 context would be used.  
… we can do this in a way where everything stays the same--use v1--but if you want the new terms, use the v1.1 context.  
… if we really wanted to, we could keep all the old stuff in the v1.1 context, so less would need to be changed to upgrade to using it.  
… I do think this would be a good idea.  
… we need to see if anyone would object if we did this as a MAY in the spec.  
… lastly, if we don't do this now...it'll be another 2 years to get these terms into the core context, which seems too long.  

#### 5.1.  (issue did-core#859)
{: #section5-1}

_See github issue [did-core#859](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/859)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/859 -->



**Gabe Cohen:** this is the new issue for it. manu, could I assign you?  

**Manu Sporny:** yes.  
… I'd like to hear from ivan.  

**Ivan Herman:** mainly, I just want to understand...  
… the did core context is very small and simple.  
… most of them already match the Controller Document.  
… what are the additional terms?  
… if we're adding terms to the DID spec, we may have other problems.  

**Manu Sporny:** right. Specifically, we're talking about....  
… the main thing these are used for is listing key material.  
… when we put the spec together, there was just JSON Web Key 2020.  
… we've decided to drop the date off the term.  
… we'd also switched to using a more consistent format with multikey.  
… we could make these changes and keep all the old stuff there.  
… or we could decide to use v1.1 and not bring over the old terms forcing upgrades to the new terms.  
… there are good arguments either way.  
… I'd lean toward it being a clean break.  
… asking people to move to the new key formats.  
… since it's a MAY, then no one needs to upgrade if they don't want to.  
… that was the thinking. Mostly around key formats.  

**Ivan Herman:** I'm undecided at this moment.  
… the nature of the additions seem to make doing this overkill.  
… so I think we can postpone.  

_See github issue [did-resolution#78](https://github.com/w3c/did-resolution/issues/78)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-resolution/78 -->



**Gabe Cohen:** there is a slightly related issue.  
… some context issues related to the move.  
… we need to make sure those are available.  
… it may be premature now, but still making a strategy would be best.  

**Manu Sporny:** one of the things that we're concerned about are production rollouts that we're doing.  
… we'd like to use the new key formats.  
… and we're concerned about being stuck with the old key formats.  
… we can fold the new ones in by using other contexts.  
… but ideally, we'd like to use a v1.1 context.  
… so...that doesn't really help make the decision since we have options either way.  
… but perhaps that explains the importance of the topic for us.  

**Ivan Herman:** if I take the union of DID and VC WGs, then we may be inconsistent.  
… in the VC WG there are separate context files.  
… and they are not in the DI context files.  

> *Manu Sporny:* Well, not really :).

**Ivan Herman:** here we are moving toward unifying them.  

> *Manu Sporny:* (or rather, no, we're not doing that).

> *Manu Sporny:* The split is (what goes in a VC vs. what goes in a controller doc).

**Ivan Herman:** it's doable, but I'm not keen on the inconsistency.  

**Manu Sporny:** the dividing line seems to be what goes in a controller doc.  
… those are public keys and controller services.  
… I think we have a controller document context.  
… in VCs, we have similar terms for proof's.  
… that may be changing with confidence method.  
… Main question is around expectations that differ between what would go into a VC vs. a Controller Document.  
… hopefully that helps explains why things are split up that way.  

### 6. Media Types.
{: #section6}

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#iana-considerations](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#iana-considerations).

**Gabe Cohen:** we have two media types.  

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/838,](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/838,) [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/849](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/849).

**Gabe Cohen:** there are issues around when those are unknown.  
… question is do we want to make adjustments.  
… are we comfortable with how things are today?  

**Manu Sporny:** this sort of comes in from the VC WG conversations.  
… we were going to use multiple suffixes.  
… but at the end of the day there was no consensus at IETF.  
… and now they don't want multiple suffixes at all.  
… and they made the decisions, so that is over.  
… which means we can only have single suffixes.  
… which then forces everyone else to fix a base subtype.  
… currently, we wanted did+json and did+ld+json.  
… we could do did-ld+json, but we can't.  
… we got bad advice.  
… so we'd have to get the JSON-LD WG to register a ld-json type.  
… and all of this will likely be many months of conversations.  
… so...we will likely have the same conversations around JSON vs. JSON-LD at the media type level.  
… or we need the JSON-LD WG to change their media type.  

**Gabe Cohen:** chair hat off.  
… if there is no concrete core representation, could we have just `did`?  
… or do we have to have several media types that include `did`?  

**Ivan Herman:** we could use the profiles.  

**Manu Sporny:** that's a third option via parameterized media types.  
… implementers get it wrong.  
… but in general, they mostly get ignored.  
… we can have a media type with a suffix.  
… `application/did+json` or `application/did+json-ld-something`.  
… we can talk to the JSON-LD WG to discuss about a new structured suffix.  
… we would then not have to register `application/did`.  
… but that would drive us into the weeds of the abstract data model discussion.  

**Benjamin Young:** As Chair of the JSON-LD WG, we are re-chartering, it's something we could pick up, because the current media type is so widely deployed, there might not be interest in coming up w/ a structured syntax, and because most JSON-LD is served w/ `application/json` -- there is a lot of discussion we could have around what the media type value is in practice, especially in distinction between JSON and JSON-LD, the media type really doesn't provide.  

> *Manu Sporny:* anything, other than a few processing specialities around HTTP Headers that JSOn-LD spec provides.

**Benjamin Young:** In terms on what could be done w/ the body, nothing is really different wrt. media types -- Media Types seem to be jumping the shark, we shouldn't depend on them too much.  

**Joe Andrieu:** I wanted to support `application/did`.  
… what we are standardizing is what goes over the wire.  
… having a media type seems appropriate.  

**Manu Sporny:** the amount of stuff in media types is ongoing.  
… there are arguments that people will do things based on media types.  
… but people mostly don't depend on them in practice.  
… even when we're clear, folks mostly just use `application/json`.  
… JSON-LD processors don't care.  
… the `application/ld+json` media type doesn't tell a processor much more than that.  
… and since implementers continue to get things wrong, there's nearly always a fallback mechanism to decide what to do with the payload.  
… typically there's introspection of some kind.  
… it is a bit of a mountain out of a mole hill.  
… we could pick `application/did` and be done with it.  
… most implementations will use JSON Schema.  
… and things that want `@context` will reject it or act on the document as if it were there.  
… we will need some language around the handling.  
… we could get to a base media type that's JSON.  
… and go from there.  

### 7. Moving DID Resolution.
{: #section7}

**Gabe Cohen:** thanks. please contribute to the media types issue.  

_See github issue [did-core#857](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/857)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/857 -->



**Gabe Cohen:** this one is about moving content.  
… there are 3 different sections.  

**Manu Sporny:** no concerns. this is a good thing to do.  
… +1 to the PRs.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1 These are good.

**Gabe Cohen:** great.  

### 8. DID Core/Resolution Issue Processing.
{: #section8}

**Gabe Cohen:** last up is issue processing.  
… if you have an issue you want to speak to, let me know.  
… otherwise, we'll just work through what's open.  
… k. we have 5 open PRs.  
… on did-core.  

#### 8.1. Fix improperly URI Encoded values in DID parameters https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/813.
{: #section8-1}

**Gabe Cohen:** this one was opened in 2022.  

**Manu Sporny:** there's discussione between TallTed and dlongley.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** I don't think there is any more disagreement.  
… the gist is don't encode things that don't need to be encoded.  

**Manu Sporny:** agreed. that means the PR needs to change.  
… just looking at the PR...  
… TallTed could you suggest what doesn't need to be encoded here?  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** I'll have to take a look.  
… the big one is a # that appears.  
… is that part of the URL?  
… or a delinator?  

**Manu Sporny:** it's part of the URL.  
… that bit would get tacked onto the end of the URL.  
… I know what you want here, so let's try to work it out on the PR.  
… change requests would be ideal.  
… thanks TallTed.  

**Gabe Cohen:** thank you both.  

> *Gabe Cohen:* .

#### 8.2. Fix serviceEndpoints maps link https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/851.
{: #section8-2}

**Gabe Cohen:** manu mentioned it couldn't be addressed earlier due to recharter, but now it looks done.  
… so can we close it?  

**Manu Sporny:** yes. just waiting on a response on the PR.  
… we fixed the core spec. The change was fine in concept, just in the wrong place.  
… don't close it yet because ivan's robots will be sad.  
… oh, nevermind...the bots are elsewhere.  

**Gabe Cohen:** one day we may have those robots here, but not yet.  

#### 8.3. https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/852 Use publicKeyMultibase instead of publicKeyBase58 field in all examples.
{: #section8-3}

**Gabe Cohen:** this PR has been opened since March.  

**Manu Sporny:** this has to do with v1.1...maybe.  
… this is related to these new terms.  
… we could pull in a new context and fix it immediately.  
… and I think we should just do that.  
… to upgrade to multibase in that way.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to Manu.

**Manu Sporny:** any objections?  

**Gabe Cohen:** seeing no one on the queue, manu maybe you can take over the PR?  
… the author may not be able to continue due to IPR?  

**Manu Sporny:** it's an example, so I think we can clear that.  
… I'll finish it up.  

#### 8.4. https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/856 Fix JSON formatting for DID document.
{: #section8-4}

**Gabe Cohen:** this one is a month old and has approvals.  

**Manu Sporny:** I can merge it.  

#### 8.5.  (pr did-core#858)
{: #section8-5}

_See github pull request [did-core#858](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/858)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/858 -->



**Gabe Cohen:** there are no reviews yet.  
… please take a look and review it.  
… that concludes our agenda.  
… join the queue if you have more to say.  
… k. hearing nothing. thank you for the progress.  
… next time, we will continue processing issues and prs.  
… please also join the TPAC conversaion.  
… have a good week!  

---


