---
layout: minutes
date: 2024-06-13
title: Decentralized Identifiers WG — 2024-06-13
---

# Decentralized Identifiers WG — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***


**Date:** 2024-06-13

See also the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2024/06/13-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Manu Sporny, Daniel Burnett, Shigeya Suzuki, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Phil Archer, Gabe Cohen, Benjamin Young, Ivan Herman, Joe Andrieu, Steve McCown, Will Abramson, David Lehn

**Regrets:** Dave Longley, Ted Thibodeau Jr.

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daniel Burnett, Gabe Cohen

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---

### 1. Introductions.
{: #section1}

**Daniel Burnett:** Dan Burnett, involved in digital identity and related standards since 25 years, co-created the DID WG.  
… here as backup for Gabe.  

**Gabe Cohen:** with Block; editor of a few specs around VC; author of some DID methods.  

**Gabe Cohen:** please everyone q+ on IRC for introducing yourself.  
… we will then review the work that we have to do as a group.  
… questions about our work items.  

**Kevin Dean:** Kevin Dean, Legendary Requirements; co-editor of the VC use cases document.  

**Markus Sabadello:** Markus Sabadello, author and editor of the initial DID core resolution, and also DID resolution.  

**Phil Archer:** Phil Archer, GS1 Global Office. Think of GS1 as "the bar code people", standard body for the supply chain industry.  
… Interested in how and whether GS1 must implement DID.  
… Spent 8 years on the W3C team, working on Linked Data.  

**Joe Andrieu:** Joe Andrieu, Legendary Requirements, co-author of the DID use cases document, creator and co-editor of the DID rubric.  
… interested in the DID Resolution spec.  

**Benjamin Young:** Benjamin Yound, Digital Bazaar. Involved in W3C for 10 years: Web Annotations, JSON-LD (chair of the WG), VC.  

**Ivan Herman:** Ivan Herman, W3C, former staff contact of the DID WG. Now staff contact of the VC WG, but still interested in this group.  

**Wes-Smith:** Wes Smith, Digital Bazaar, new to this space.

**Manu Sporny:** Manu Spory, co-editor of DID and VC specs.  

**Shigeya Suzuki:** Shigeya Suzuki, co-editor of the DID core spec.  

**Bruno:** Bruno Vavala, Interlabs. Here to monitor the work of the group.  

**Steve McCown:** Steve McCown, co-chair of the DID-Comm WG at DIF. On the DIF steering committee.  
… Background in cybersecurity, approaching problems from that perspective.  

**Will Abramson:** Will Abramson, Legendary Requirements, co-chair of the CCG.  

**David Lehn:** David Lehn, Digital Bazaar, involved in JSON-LD, VC, DID for quite some time.  

**James Easter:** James Easter, Digital Bazaar, new to this space.  

**Daniel Pape:** Dan Pape, Digital Contract Design. In this space for a few years.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** Pierre-Antoine Champin, W3C, team contact of this group.  

**Jennie Meier:** Jennie Meier, Digital Contract Design, alternate AC-rep for DCD, new to this space.  

**Tyler Minard**: Digital Bazaar.

**Daniel Burnett:** it's great to see so many people. Please turn on your video if you are willing to. It is nice to get to know people a little better during the initial call.  

### 2. W3C Process https://www.w3.org/2023/Process-20231103.
{: #section2}

**Gabe Cohen:** the W3C operates under a process of strong consensus. Different from other organizations.  
… If somebody disagrees, we may spend time trying to resolve the objection. It does not always work, but we take time for that.  
… Also, when we ask for scribes, please volunteer. For newcomers, this is a good way to become popular in the group.  
… We will talking more about spec process.  
… I look forward to see you all at the F2F meeting. We will do work in the meantime, but this is an important moment for the group.  
… A standard group is a place where competitors meet.  
… Remember that people who disagree with you are not idiots, they usually are talented and knowldgeable.  

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://www.w3.org/2023/Process-20231103](https://www.w3.org/2023/Process-20231103).

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://www.w3.org/2023/Process-20231103/#correction-classes](https://www.w3.org/2023/Process-20231103/#correction-classes).

**Gabe Cohen:** +1 to what Dan said about scribing; also a good way to pay close attention to the meeting.  

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://www.w3.org/2023/Process-20231103/#rec-track](https://www.w3.org/2023/Process-20231103/#rec-track).

**Gabe Cohen:** Above links to the W3C process, and to the section about correction classes and the recommendation tracks.  
… We are going to work together as a team; please rely on us chairs and the team contact to resolve conflicts.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** two parts to our work.  

### 3. Charter Review https://www.w3.org/2024/04/did-wg-charter.html.
{: #section3}

**Gabe Cohen:** the group is chartered for two years. We can consider extensions as need be.  
… We plan to meet on a weekly basis. This time is the most probably accepted time, according to the previous survey.  

**Daniel Burnett:** we will talk about that at the end of the meeting.  

**Gabe Cohen:** we will maintain the DID core spec; no new features, but class 3 changes may affect compliance.  
… we will also maintain the DID registry.  
… I talks with people and no one seems interested to take over this deliverable. We might need to deprioritize it.  

> *Daniel Burnett:* Just to note that items such as the Plain CBOR representation are maintenance only, so it is not an issue if no one has a desire for changes.

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-resolution/](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-resolution/).

**Gabe Cohen:** Then we have the DID Resolution deliverable on REC track.  
… It has one input document (link above), but that does not mean that we can not depart from that document.  

> *Manu Sporny:* I really do hope we do adopt the CCG DID Resolution spec -- it's the best starting point :).

**Gabe Cohen:** The charter lists a number of related groups that we may want to liaise with at some point.  
… External organizations are also listed.  
… To join meetings you need to be a W3C member, but minutes are publicly available.  
… The mailing list and github repo are also public.  

**Phil Archer:** don't overlook the liaison section.  
… in the RCH WG, which I chaired with markus_sabadello, we had a hard time justifying that we had actually liaised with the groups listed in our charter.  

**Daniel Burnett:** agree; in some cases, it is worth having a proper liaison.  
… In other cases, it is mostly about having people in both group discussing.  

**Ivan Herman:** one more things that people should realize:.  
… we have a number of "Horizontal Review" groups (i18n, accessibility, privacy, security, TAG).  
… it is extremely important to get their review before publishing a Candidate Recommendation,.  
… it is never too early to contact them; they have requests from many different groups.  

> *Phil Archer:* +1 to Ivan's comments.

**Ivan Herman:** We should draw their attention as soon as we have a First Public Working Draft.  

**Daniel Burnett:** thanks ivan. We will cover this as we go along.  
… If you are new to this process, it is easy to think "we are doing our work, the rest does not matter".  
… Many other groups I've been involved in start without a process, then add those constraints as they go, realizing they are necessary for a standard group.  
… This is what makes a standard good for the world.  

### 5. Charter discussion.
{: #section5}

**Gabe Cohen:** we will create 2 distinct task forces.  
… we will need editors for each of our work items.  
… You may express interest right now, or later.  

**Manu Sporny:** some comments on the DID-core spec and the DID spec registries.  
… I'm volunteering as an editor for both.  
… DID-core has editorial PRs since 2021, which we didn't address as we were working on the charter.  
… They should be addressed.  
… In the VC WG, we have a new Controller Document spec, which is a generalization of DID-core.  

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://w3c.github.io/controller-document/](https://w3c.github.io/controller-document/).

**Manu Sporny:** We has a number of updates, normatively defined.  
… This group will have to decide whether to depend on this spec or not.  
… The two biggest things that I see for DID-core.  
… For the DID-spec registries, a couple of things happened.  
… A group of ~14 people are helping dealing with registration, but I'm behind on managing PRs.  
… A couple more volunteers would be useful.  

**Gabe Cohen:** as we migrate the rubric and spec registries to W3C Registry, what does it mean process-wise?  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** as they are notes, hence non-normative, I guess the transition will be very similar to starting from scratch.  

> *Steve McCown:* I'm happy to volunteer to help as a co-editor of either document.

**Ivan Herman:** we need to check with PLH. This is a special case, hence not covered in the process.  

**Markus Sabadello:** interested in being an editor of the DID resolution work item.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* I'm also happy to volunteer to continue editor role with DID Method Rubric and, should we need it, the DID Use Cases document.

**Manu Sporny:** regarding registries, my understanding is that the WG sets the rules that govern the registry.  
… by and large, the current criteria that we have works ok.  
… We need to discuss if everyone agrees.  

**Daniel Burnett:** thanks to Steve and Joe for volunteering to help with some documents.  
… We will leave this call for volunteers open for a little while, then we will reach out to people.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* Co-editors welcome!

**Daniel Burnett:** We appreciate the volunteering, often we don't get enough volunteers.  

### 6. Administrivia.
{: #section6}

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://www.w3.org/events/tpac/2024/tpac-2024-hybrid-meeting/](https://www.w3.org/events/tpac/2024/tpac-2024-hybrid-meeting/).

**Gabe Cohen:** TPAC is coming up in September. It would be excellent if you could join in person, but that's a hybrid meeting, so online is good too.  
… Our meetings are on Monday and Tuesday; no conflict with VC.  

> *Manu Sporny:* yes, interested in a joint session w/ FedID WG.

**Gabe Cohen:** There is a conflict with the Federated ID CG+WG. I contacted their chair about a possible joint meeting.  

> *Phil Archer:* +1 to a joint session with the federated ID folks. A compare and contrast discussion would be interesting.

**Gabe Cohen:** It would be interesting to have presentations/demos of DID uses in the real world.  

**Phil Archer:** if you can get there, it is good. 10 years ago, there was the 20th anniversary of the Web with TimBL and Vint Cerf.  
… This year will be the 30th anniversary. You will be glad to be there.  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* there's also DID & FedID overlap/conflict with WebID, which remains a 2014 Editor's Draft, trying to become at least a CG Report. needs proper adoption and shepherding, because LOTS of people treat it as if it were a full TR.

**Gabe Cohen:** recurring meeting: this slot seems to work.  
… reach out to me if you have remarks, or know other interested people.  

**Daniel Burnett:** the next meeting will not necessarily be next week. Watch your email.  
… If we need to schedule a different slot, this is goint to take time.  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* [https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/did/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/did/calendar/).

**Gabe Cohen:** please review the charter and list of deliverables;.  

> *Manu Sporny:* woo! Thanks everyone! Excited to get started!

**Gabe Cohen:** open issues or comment on existing ones.  

---

