---
layout: minutes
date: 2024-08-08
title: Decentralized Identifier Working Group — 2024-08-08
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2024/2024-08-08-did",
        "name": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group — Minutes",
        "about": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group",
        "dateCreated": "2024-08-08",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2024-08-12",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group",
            "startDate": "2024-08-08",
            "endDate": "2024-08-08",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Will Abramson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gabe Cohen"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kevin Dean"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jennie Meier"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Christopher Allen"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Decentralized Identifier Working Group — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2024-08-08

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2024Aug/0001.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2024/08/08-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Will Abramson, Ivan Herman, Gabe Cohen, Kevin Dean, Joe Andrieu, Markus Sabadello, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Jennie Meier, Christopher Allen, Benjamin Young

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Will Abramson

**Scribe(s):** Joe Andrieu, Manu Sporny

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Agenda Review, Introductions.
{: #section1}

### 2. Special Topic Call Summary.
{: #section2}

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2024Aug/0002.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2024Aug/0002.html).

**Gabe Cohen:** reporting on the special topic call, especially scribing.  
… . did not get to consensus on the Abstract Data model, but lots of good discussion.  
… notes cover more detail.  

_See github issue [did-core#855](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/855)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/855 -->



**Gabe Cohen:** we can discuss this topic more on future calls.  

**Manu Sporny:** thanks for the summary. About note taking, it's typically a bad idea not to scribe meetings.  
… It creates bad situations where it seems like there's a cabal talking about something, that later shows up at the main meeting.  
… and people in the main meeting don't have a way to understand the conversation that actually happened.  
… As a global standards group, there are legal consequences to these conversations.  
… e.g., if a patent was mentioned, that would go unrecorded and create IP issues.  
… sometimes there are behaviors, such as CPC violations also get undocumented.  
… I know you get that, Gabe, but I wanted to underscore for the rest of us the reason this is important.  

**Will Abramson:** good points, we agree to scribe going forward.  

**Gabe Cohen:** Dan's notion was that a casual conversation might be good.  

**Manu Sporny:** anyone *can* meet anywhere, yes, but when it is official W3C process, which means every decision we make is defensible and scribed.  
… DB would probably stop participating if the group were to stop scribing.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** along similar lines, I have been having problems with conversations and decisions that are handle in chair calls or editor calls that don't involve the general group.  
… . that's problematic because its presented fait accompli.  
… e.g., yesterday Ivan thought the scribing notice was sent to the list, but it actually wasn't. It was sent to editors list.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to Ted, I realized later that it was in a direct email.

**Will Abramson:** good points, tallted.  

> *Manu Sporny:* Yes, completely agree ^ -- this has been a problem at W3C (and IETF) in the past and we need to do better.

**Will Abramson:** next week: no special topic call.  
… Our goal is to announce at least by the Thursday before.  
… Let us know if you have any topics for a future special topic call.  

### 3. DID Resolution Big Rocks.
{: #section3}

#### 3.1.  (issue did-resolution#80)
{: #section3-1}

_See github issue [did-resolution#80](https://github.com/w3c/did-resolution/issues/80)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-resolution/80 -->



**Markus Sabadello:** can I talk about some PRs before that?  

_See github issue [did-core#857](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/857)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/857 -->



**Will Abramson:** yep.  

**Markus Sabadello:** this issue is about moving all the context related to did resolution to the did resolution spec.  
… the idea is to make everything related to resolution is in one place.  
… I opened two pull requests that go together. One on did core and one on did resolution.  

> *Markus Sabadello:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/858](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/858) and [https://github.com/w3c/did-resolution/pull/84](https://github.com/w3c/did-resolution/pull/84).

**Markus Sabadello:** it would be great if that could be reviewed.  

**Manu Sporny:** +1 to support PR.  

**Will Abramson:** so we give it a week for any comments. then we'll get that merged in.  

**Markus Sabadello:** there is one related question about metadata.  
… we have did document metadata and did resolution metadata, such as when was the doc created/updated, etc.  
… with these PRs, this is moving over as the metadata is about resolution.  
… but I thought maybe its worth asking about.  

**Manu Sporny:** +1 to support that. any metadata feels like it goes in the resolution spec.  

#### 3.2.  (issue did-resolution#80)
{: #section3-2}

_See github issue [did-resolution#80](https://github.com/w3c/did-resolution/issues/80)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-resolution/80 -->



**Will Abramson:** markus_sabadello I'll let you pick the next issue.  

**Markus Sabadello:** there are a couple to see if we have a general direction to proceed.  
… (four topics).  
… These are the most prominent sections.  
… If we're agreed, then we can proceed to other issues.  
… I'll quickly summarize if that would help.  
… first one #80 is about DID resolution and did dereferencing algorithms.  
… so far in the spec we have defined resolution and reference as abstract functions.  
… we said "here's a resolve function, inputs & outputs) but not how they are processed.  
… we have not specified how to process certain query string parameters or how to dereference a path if there is one.  
… or how to process meta-data from the functions.  
… So there's a section that defines a more concrete algorithm for resolving and dereferencing.  
… I'd like to get feedback about if this is the right direction.  
… if we agree it is, then good. this is one of the key areas we have to address.  

#### 3.3.  (issue did-resolution#81)
{: #section3-3}

_See github issue [did-resolution#81](https://github.com/w3c/did-resolution/issues/81)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-resolution/81 -->



**Markus Sabadello:** On to #81 is about architecture.  
… That has to do with how do you communicate with a resolver. Is it a local library? A remote service?  
… how does the client talk to a resolver, and how does the resolver process a request.  
… maybe resolvers redirecting to others.  
… and topics about how you trust a resolver. do you run it yourself?  
… . do you use someone else's. if so, how do you check the result?  
… Things like that.  
… it would be good to get high level feedback.  
… for example, if there are people who think resolution should be a strict client-server protocol.  

**Will Abramson:** as I hear you talking through that, I'm wondering how much might be in implementation guide instead of in spec.  

**Manu Sporny:** I think it is important to highlight that there are multiple architectures.  
… I was kind of ambivalent to that until you mention client/server.  
… to which I'm like "NO." not client server.  
… We're in a situation now where we do need to clearly delineate the architecture.  
… there is a difference between local only and remote at a minimum.  

**Joe Andrieu:** This client server question -- it's going to be vital to have mandatory to implement HTTPS API -- I think that's how we get cross-site/cross-method interop. If each Method HAS to expose common endpoint, we'll have interop between methods, if we have customized architecture but no mandatory to implement, we won't achieve interop goals.  

**Christopher Allen:** I have questions about how much we need to talk about trust models in this document.  
… I think there's a minimum that we should clarify.  
… the first resolver you just have to trust.  
… maybe because it's on your local machine.  
… we should be careful other than locking that down, other than you have to trust that first one, but if that one then calls others, that's another layer of trust.  

**Will Abramson:** markus we'll give you last word on this before we move on.  

**Manu Sporny:** I think most methods would implement the http api, maybe doesn't need to be MTI (mandatory to implement).  
… I'm concerned about "cross method interop" and I don't think I know what that means. for a future discussion.  

**Markus Sabadello:** relating to trust models.  
… totally agree. there's some discussion in this section.  
… e.g., running your own bitcoin node versus remotely querying.  
… What Joe said about mandatory http endpoint: yeah, maybe. a counter example.  
… these are the things that would go into that secton.  
… more discussion on the github would be appreciated.  

#### 3.4.  (issue did-resolution#82)
{: #section3-4}

_See github issue [did-resolution#82](https://github.com/w3c/did-resolution/issues/82)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-resolution/82 -->



**Markus Sabadello:** this is about having a concrete serialization / representation of the result of resolution funciton and entity reference function.  
… we had these defined in an abstract way, but we have not defined every presentation or serialization of that.  
… defines a JSON_LD model where you have did document and metadata in the same document.  
… this is related to the abstract data model, so not so simple, but I'm curious if anyone in the group doesn't like this idea.  

#### 3.5.  (issue did-resolution#83)
{: #section3-5}

_See github issue [did-resolution#83](https://github.com/w3c/did-resolution/issues/83)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-resolution/83 -->



**Markus Sabadello:** this is about https interface.  
… how to implement the abstract resolution over https.  
… it defines how the abstract endpoints are satisfied by the http endpoints, how to contsruct URLs and headers, etc.  
… If you resolve a DID that is deactivated, then how is that returned over an HTTPs binding? Some say there should be an HTTP error code.  
… others say it's not an error if it is deactivated. so return 200 with appropriate metadata.  
… I'm looking for initial feedback. Is this one of the things we should be doing? An http interface?  
… separately we can discuss if it should be mandatory.  

**Manu Sporny:** +1.  
… the theme here is "do we want to talk about abstract stuff" in the space, then do we want to provide concrete instances of those abstract concepts.  
… are people going to kick up a fuss about an http API. I think we should do it.  
… we were "too abstract" before.  
… We're doing this to ensure that interoperability is demonstrable.  

**Joe Andrieu:** The way you presented it, Manu, you made it seem like we keep abstract notions in new spec w/ concrete thing. I think we need to move beyond abstract -- take what we defined as abstract and define that into concrete endpoint.  

**Manu Sporny:** I was saying lets keep both of them for now. maybe they merge in the future.  
… it may help us think about it abstractly, then make all interop testing about concrete things.  
… in theory we should be able to separate those two notions.  
… that is what got us in trouble with the abstract data model.  
… but some people like that.  

**Stephan:** back to mandatory to implement, do you mean to define the API or an actual service endpoint.  

**Joe Andrieu:** I definitely just mean the API.  
… Some decentralized services cannot be resolved to a specific URI -- there is no URI for a bitcoin node, but you can provide a piece of software that can expose itself on an IP or domain and interact w/ that resolver. Not an actual service endpoint, I agree, that would be a point of centralization. I'd just like to see an API.  

**Will Abramson:** moving on.  

### 4. DID Core Big Rocks.
{: #section4}

**Manu Sporny:** these are just big rock concepts that don't necessarily have much to do with each other.  
… just general decisions we need to make.  

#### 4.1.  (issue did-core#857)
{: #section4-1}

_See github issue [did-core#857](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/857)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/857 -->



**Manu Sporny:** first one is do we want to move did resolution from did core to did resolution. we said yes to that today. done.  
… unless folks want to speak up.  
… pausing a beat.  

#### 4.2.  (issue did-core#850)
{: #section4-2}

_See github issue [did-core#850](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/850)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/850 -->



**Manu Sporny:** going a bit out of order.  
… 850 is just updating JSONWebKey examples.  
… [did:core](did:core) contains outdated examples. I'd like to update them.  
… small snag, v1 context doesn't contain the JSONWebKey type.  
… I'd recommend another context in the example, since the example is not normative.  
… So first question do we want to update from the 2020 stuff to the latest?  

#### 4.3.  (issue did-core#854)
{: #section4-3}

_See github issue [did-core#854](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/854)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/854 -->



**Manu Sporny:** Hearing no objection, moving to next item.  
… 854 is about normative referencing the controller document specification.  
… . folks in VCWG didn't want to use DIDs, but did want to use DID documents.  
… so we created this separate document that is generalized. Any URL can be used, https is what most from that community wnat.  
… what we could do in did core is, instead of duplicating text, we can refer to the controller document, with annotation about where you use DID documents in a controller document.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [VC Version of the controller document](https://www.w3.org/TR/controller-document/).

**Manu Sporny:** we think the controller document will be a REC before we are done in our group.  
… suggestion: start referencing the normative controller document.  

**Will Abramson:** if we did this, what would be left in [did:core?](did:core?).  

**Manu Sporny:** quite a bit still.  
… did syntax, introduction, example, design goals, architecture, identifier, data model, and core properties of identifiers remain.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* would remove verification relationships and methods.

**Manu Sporny:** services might also be moved.  
… we would leave representations in here. We'd keep Methods in the main document. Maybe 70% of considerations are in the controller doc.  
… so it would shrink quite a bit, but there's still plenty left.  

**Christopher Allen:** part of me likes the simplification and I have a reservation that, in the VC group, are we moving toward looking down to JSON-LD with the latest ieration.  
… by doing this is that totally out of our control?  
… other than the loss of control... I kinda like the idea.  

**Manu Sporny:** not locked to JSON-LD.  

> *Christopher Allen:* Oh, is there a cbor version of it being discussed there?

> *Christopher Allen:* (ideally dCBOR).

**Manu Sporny:** as far as control. it really should be in this group, but for historical reasons it was created in response to needs from the VCWG.  
… we may want to reimagine how we do data-integrity development and did development in the future.  
… that would need a rechartering, which we don't want to do now.  
… I don't see a particular risk with the VCWG making negative decisions.  

**Will Abramson:** what is the scope of this group take ownership of that work?  

**Markus Sabadello:** I think it's a great idea to just reference the controller document.  
… I'm already getting questions about what's the difference?  
… Concern that if we keep it separate, then we diverge with conflicting language.  

**Christopher Allen:** at some point there was discussion about a CBOR version or other representations. Did that continue?  

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/did-cbor-representation/](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-cbor-representation/).

**Gabe Cohen:** its in our charter to have a plain CBOR representation.  
… I'm not aware of any efforts, but that would be cool.  
… I'd prefer the item be in this group, but rechartering seems painful.  
… It may be confusing to go across multiple documents from different groups.  
… any way we can reduce that burden would help.  

> *Christopher Allen:* a deterministic CBOR (an IETF internet-draft subset of CBOR that addresses determinism issues of CBOR) is of interest to me. Just don't have time to submit to another group.

**Ivan Herman:** Rechartering is never painless. We should avoid that.  

> *Christopher Allen:* If there are others interested, let me know.

**Ivan Herman:** one more aspect toward referrijng to the VC document. We define a bunch of terms in did document, but they are all defined, formally in the VC document. They are all in the security vocabulary.  
… the controller document must be controlled by the working group that takes care of the relevant vocabulary.  
… that is in favor of keeping that in the VCWG.  
… As far as I can see the DID part only adds one or two terms, like services, which are not in the security vocabulary.  

**Manu Sporny:** we do have a CBOR-LD that will compress all the terms and keys. You get a fairly tight compression.  
… I don't recommend we pick that up. We are working on a charter for a separate WG.  
… Second: specifications keep landing in weird places. They make sense at the time of chartering, but over time they really want ot be somehwere else.  
… things end up taking their life of their own.  
… we should think about the right place for these to go.  
… VCs in VCWG, etc., adjusting that (charters) is painful, but we can do it as we naturally recharter into the future.  

> *Gabe Cohen:* +1 to imagining the 'ideal state' even if not possible today.

**Will Abramson:** continuing next week!  

---


