---
layout: minutes
date: 2024-07-25
title: Decentralized Identifier Working Group — 2024-07-25
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2024/2024-07-25-did",
        "name": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group — Minutes",
        "about": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group",
        "dateCreated": "2024-07-25",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2024-07-25",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group",
            "startDate": "2024-07-25",
            "endDate": "2024-07-25",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Will Abramson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gabe Cohen"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "andres"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Christopher Allen"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kevin Dean"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jennie Meier"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Decentralized Identifier Working Group — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2024-07-25

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2024Jul/0028.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2024/07/25-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Ivan Herman, Gabe Cohen, Markus Sabadello, andres, Christopher Allen, Manu Sporny, Joe Andrieu, Kevin Dean, Jennie Meier, Benjamin Young

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Will Abramson

**Scribe(s):** Ivan Herman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Will Abramson:* rsagent, draft minutes.

### 1. Agenda Review, Introductions.
{: #section1}

**Will Abramson:** anyone new today?  
…   
…   
…   

### 2. Announcement: APAC Meeting Time Poll.
{: #section2}

> *Gabe Cohen:* [https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/aK5MXoRd](https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/aK5MXoRd).

**Will Abramson:** APAC meeting time poll.  
… see link about.  
… we try to close the poll 5pm Wed.  

> *Will Abramson:* [https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/aK5MXoRd](https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/aK5MXoRd).

### 3. Announcement: First Special Topic Call 7th August.
{: #section3}

**Will Abramson:** 1st special topic call 7 august.  
… topic will be about abstract data model.  

_See github issue [did-core#855](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/855)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-core/855 -->



**Will Abramson:** we give it 2 weeks.  
… we ask people to reach out to chairs friday next week.  
… some people do not understand the trade-off of choosing or not choosing.  
… if you have sg to share or an opinion have a presentation.  
… any comments?  

### 4. DID Resolution.
{: #section4}

**Will Abramson:** hand over to markus.  

**Markus Sabadello:** (slides will be available).  

**Christopher Allen:** my quetion is more of a process/politics question. We were clearly requested that we need to do more formalized did resolution.  
… That raises the question what part of this normative (to answer their concerns) and what are the things that might create problems.  
… eg I am interested by selective disclosure, but I do not know what can be normative, what can not.  
… I try to understand the dimensions to get this through.  

**Will Abramson:** we should plug things into issues.  

**Manu Sporny:** thanks Markus. I think the question you highlighted are the right ones.  
… in did core things were put there because that was the only place, we should move them now to the resolution spec.  

> *Will Abramson:* +1.

**Manu Sporny:** what do you need to process the issues, you are the best person to prioritize them.  
… we should put lot of focus on resolution 3:1 compared to DID Core.  
… are you planning to prioritize?  

**Markus Sabadello:** I am happy to hear that we want to move things from core to resolution, it will simplify lots of things.  
… what would help me is to solve the abstract data model question, that would simplify the resolution process.  
… i need feedbacks from the wg on the questions.  
… one thing would be bad if we spend a year on easy topics (eg, error code) and then somebody says that the structure is bad...  
… getting feedbacks on the high level structure would be important.  

**Joe Andrieu:** +1 to move resolution out of core.  

> *Gabe Cohen:* +1 to http interface.

**Joe Andrieu:** a quesiton I like to add is to have a mandatory http interface, but we if we want to answer the concerns we should say that a bona fide method should have an http interface.  
… on the abstract data model: we cannot test that, but having a datatype that we can test would be better.  

**Will Abramson:** we want indeed to move the big rocks.  
… we have to decide what we want to put time into.  

**Manu Sporny:** lots of agreement with what ChristopherA and JoeAndrieu said.  
… we have to talk about test suites as well, to address criticisms.  
… having an http based test suite will be useful.  
… if we do that we can point to a concrete api.  
… we already have a test suite for did, but it is not adequate.  
… we may want to spend time a did 'linter'.  
… it is not difficult but would be useful.  

> *Christopher Allen:* Is a did "linter" really a controller document "linter"?

**Manu Sporny:** it would give the community a usefule tool.  
… it would be easy to do.  
… maybe a resolution sofware could include it.  
… +1 to Joe, we need an http api, it woul help us to test suites.  
… Ideally, we should have a test suite in about 6 months.  

**Christopher Allen:** which of these things (the misc page on the presentation) would put us at risk at the end.  
… i try to get a feel to see which are risky.  

**Markus Sabadello:** you mean list (page 9)? I do not think any of these are critical.  
… the big ones are the arch designs and the bindings; these are minor issues.  
… we can also use the registry to add error codes, for example.  
… we can use extension, not in the spec itself.  
… i see these as less risky.  
… we also did a linter project, will share that as well.  

> *Markus Sabadello:* DID Resolution test suite: [https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-resolution-test-suite](https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-resolution-test-suite).

> *Markus Sabadello:* DID Lint / Validator: [https://didlint.ownyourdata.eu/](https://didlint.ownyourdata.eu/).

**Manu Sporny:** on the risks, I agree with markus, I do not think there is any risk, we can put anything in it that does not exceed the charter.  
… per the core, with the changes may be risky.  
… eg, we may point to the credential doc and that may be risky, but it will be out there earlier.  
… the abstract data model removal may be a bigger risky, but that is not testable, so it is more problemantic, and if there are other represenations (cbor, yaml, etc), we may get.  
… unfriendly comments. But we can re-write so that other data formats should be possible to do that. But if we pick a serialziation in the core model, that can lead to objections either without or outside the group.  

**Christopher Allen:** I am still concerned, I do not know what they former objector's opposition to the resolution (eg, get this in the browser), that means an internal API which is not http\.  

> *Ivan Herman:* I am a bit confused.

**Christopher Allen:** I prefer to the abstract data model in the core and the resolution should be very specific, it can do tight conformance in json, or http.  
… the did core 1.1 will not say that you MUST use did resolution.  
… some may different model for selective disclosure, for example,.  
… the did resolution is zero constraint and help the did core documen where it is not precise enough.  

**Manu Sporny:** the concerns raised during the previous specs; if we can demonstrate that we have interoperability better than before, I do not think it matters whether it is resolution or not.  
… they were starting to " just show use at least one interoperable method".  
… we have that already.  
… then there was a request you referred to some method that are really decentrilized, not like, eg, [did:web](did:web).  
… there are couple of layers, and each organizations asked different things.  
… but if we get back the same did document from different software, for example, we would prove interoperability.  
… we do not standardize specific did methos.  
… that should address the initial formal objections, and we are in a stronger position now.  

> *Christopher Allen:* I'd like to add to a future agenda, if how much we have to define for "trust in did resolution"/"authentication"/"encryption"/"sd".

> *Will Abramson:* I suggest adding an issue ChristopherA.

**Markus Sabadello:** thanks for bringing all this up, i agree with this deliverable will prove the requirements the community has, the http binding will help further.  
… at the last tpac tehre were also a number of ideas.  
… eg, supported methods by a resolver can be discoverable.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1 to support redirection / discovery of other resolvers.

**Will Abramson:** thanks for this presentation.  

### 5. Next Up: DID Method Registries.
{: #section5}

**Will Abramson:** remind you to get the issues in.  

_See github issue [did-spec-registries#568](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/issues/568)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-spec-registries/568 -->



**Will Abramson:** next week we will discuss registry again and that issue ^ on how to split up the registry.  
… thanks everyone.  

---


