---
layout: minutes
date: 2024-07-18
title: Decentralized Identifier Working Group — 2024-07-18
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2024/2024-07-18-did",
        "name": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group — Minutes",
        "about": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group",
        "dateCreated": "2024-07-18",
        "irc": "did",
        "datePublished": "2024-07-25",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Decentralized Identifier Working Group",
            "startDate": "2024-07-18",
            "endDate": "2024-07-18",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dan Burnett"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Christopher Allen"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "tminard"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Will Abramson"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kevin Dean"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "andres"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Pape"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Steve McCown"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jennie Meier"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Decentralized Identifier Working Group — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2024-07-18

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2024Jul/0014.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2024/07/18-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daniel Burnett, Ivan Herman, Christopher Allen, tminard, Benjamin Young, Manu Sporny, Will Abramson, Kevin Dean, andres, Daniel Pape, Joe Andrieu, Ted Thibodeau Jr., David Lehn, Steve McCown, Jennie Meier

**Regrets:** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Kim Duffy

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Dan Burnett

**Scribe(s):** Benjamin Young, Manu Sporny

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Agenda Review, Introductions.
{: #section1}

> *Christopher Allen:* Summertime!

**Daniel Burnett:** is there anyone here who has not introduced themselves in an earlier call?  

**Christopher Allen:** technically, I haven't introduced myself for this revised group.  
… I'm founder and chairman of the Rebooting the Web of Trust group.  
… and co-authored many specs.  
… I currently run Blockchain Commons.  
… focusing on "layer zero" of the stack.  
… trying to get more higher reviewed code in Rust.  

**Daniel Burnett:** I have a special announcement about the special topic call.  
… is there anything else that needs adding to the agenda?  

### 2. Special topic call: Time announcement.
{: #section2}

**Daniel Burnett:** even if you have something to propose, we'll likely put it on a future call to keep things focused.  
… so, the special topic call time.  
… we look for a time that can accommodate the most people possible.  
… especially editors for the docs being discussed.  
… The special topic call will be Wednesdays: 7am PT.  

> *Christopher Allen:* 0700 PDT until November.

**Daniel Burnett:** 10am ET.  
… I'd like to ask that we keep that day and time reserved for these calls.  
… we'll use them as needed.  
… any questions?  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** please add these to the W3C Calendar.  

**Daniel Burnett:** can we schedule them, they will be.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** could you put the pending ones in?  
… that way I'll keep it blocked out just in case.  

> *Christopher Allen:* (For me, not only it is really early PDT, but also conflicts with IETF CBOR meeting).

**Daniel Burnett:** sorry for the conflicts with other groups.  

### 3. DID Registries.
{: #section3}

**Daniel Burnett:** main topic is DID Registries.  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2024Jul/att-0016/2024_DID_Specification_Registries_v1.1_Roadmap.pdf](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2024Jul/att-0016/2024_DID_Specification_Registries_v1.1_Roadmap.pdf).

_See github issue [did-spec-registries#565](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/issues/565)._

<!-- issue w3c/did-spec-registries/565 -->



> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/).

**Daniel Burnett:** Manu will be giving the above presentation.  
… and then we'll open up the floor to discussion.  

**Manu Sporny:** this one should be shorter than last time.  
… DID specification registries is something we're chartered to build.  
… I'll go over what it is by way of reminder.  
… then point to what we need to discuss.  
… The DID Spec Registries are official registries for the DID ecosystem.  
… including: the registration process, the list of DID methods, property names and values, service types, etc.  
… There are several formats that we support--which should be kept in mind.  
… we also have metadata for DID URLs.  
… as well as resolution.  
… They contain quite a bit of material.  
… The registration process gets asked about often.  
… it does exist and we do follow it.  

> *Christopher Allen:* I can wait.

**Daniel Burnett:** let's keep going and hold questions until the end.  

**Manu Sporny:** we have a registration process, we follow it. We could change it...it's a bit long in the tooth.  
… we could modify, update, or remove some parts.  
… there are 11 maintainers.  
… we organized that group less than a year ago.  
… our previous maintainers dropped out, I was the only one left, so we needed more editors.  
… Thankfully, people stepped forward to participate.  
… we asked for volunteers, we got some, we onboarded them.  
… we had no objections to the volunteers.  
… some are participants in the group, others are from the wider community who just care about DIDs.  
… I continue to be the one to do the final merge after reviews are done.  
… the reason we're behind is because I'm behind. The volunteers have been great, very communicative.  
… We're very lucky to have this many participants.  
… The 190+ DID methods can feel great to some and terrible to others.  
… there are proposals for doing some cleanup.  
… it's not a free for all--even if it can look like it from such a long list.  
… they've all met the minimum criteria.  
… Let's look through the DID Spec Registries note.  
… Labeling needs improving.  
… Property names includes several defined terms.  
… `linkedResource` is something other people added, so that's working for the community to extend.  
… Verification Methods is being handled elsewhere, so that may come out.  
… we have several properties related to Verification Method that we should also discuss.  
… There's also a Service Properties section we should reconsider.  
… There's another set of Verification Method types which also need reconsideration--some of it is ancient.  
… and there are new values to add if Verification Methods stay in.  
… Service Types is a growing list.  
… Representation types will need discussion. Currently it's JSON, JSON-LD, and CBOR.  
… We also now have a DID Resolution spec, so we may want to refactor the DID Resolution Metadata contained in this registry note.  
… DID Document Metadata comes back from the resolver, or it's something the resolver can report back to the user.  
… There are also parameters such as `hl` (hashlink), `service`, `relativeRef`, etc.  
… and DID Methods.  
… That list references the Registry and Contact info...however some of these are so old we don't have contact information for them.  
… Despite the size of the list, very few have had registration time issues.  
… we can continue to garden this group note.  
… we could also consider making it a W3C specification.  
… and do we want to align things more closely with other groups, such as the VCWG?  
… and do we add/remove categories.  
… there's also interest in raising the bar a bit for DID methods.  
… the registration process generally works, but we can discuss if we want to add/remove requirements.  
… anyone's welcome to file issues.  
… there are currently 40 open issues...some of which are very old.  
… processing these would be a good place to start now that we have a WG to do that work.  
… we also have pending registrations.  
… some of them are nearly a year old and need to be merged.  
… that's the summary.  

**Daniel Burnett:** admin content: bigbluehat is scribing today. Someday, it will be your turn.  
… don't panic. it's not hard.  
… watch what the scribe does.  
… capture the essence of the conversation.  
… it's very important and I personally have referenced minutes from over 3 years ago.  
… it's very valuable to return to these logs.  
… DID spec registries is currently pretty much an open discussion.  
… the chairs are keen to understand what folks want to focus on.  
… especially as we get close to TPAC in September.  

**Christopher Allen:** there's basically 3 maybe 4 things.  
… I'd like to be able to list SSH keys--which is an IETF standard.  
… it's not always clear how to add those.  
… same is probably also true for some existing optional items.  
… I'm also concerned that if this gets tangled with the VC Controller Document, there might be some interesting challenges.  
… the big politically hard one is the DID list itself.  
… my suggestion is put a column to state status, put everyone in "provisional", and give people time to validate that they're still around, interested, and able.  
… there is also a JSON-LD context out there. I don't plan to use that, but other people need it, so do we maintain that? what else is out there like that which we also need to maintain?  

**Manu Sporny:** couple responses.  
… SSH keys could go in key types possibly.  

**Christopher Allen:** so, that list isn't up-to-date. What's the status?  

**Manu Sporny:** I agree. It comes down to who's maintaining that content--it's as up-to-date as they keep it.  
… the SSH keys could have a place in that section though.  
… the Controller Document could be put into the purview of this group. Chartering challenges, though, put it into the VCWG.  
… but I think moving it now would cause a lot of churn.  
… with not much reward.  
… maybe eventually, but given the heavy overlap, I think it can stay in VCWG until a later rechartering date.  
… concerning timeouts.  
… We could put in a registration date and submitters could need to keep bumping their registration or robots would remove expired ones.  
… creating a sort of natural timeout.  

**Joe Andrieu:** there are two big rocks we need to request.  
… abandonment and squatting.  
… we also talked about test suites.  
… and a complete proposal for some of these ideas from manu.  
… the real gorilla, though, is name ownership.  
… the DID spec doesn't actually require that the name exist singularly in the registry.  
… and that's a tricky problem to solve now.  

**Christopher Allen:** so, there was a forth question about other documents such as the JSON-LD context.  
… is that part of the registry? are there other docs like that?  
… also what are our refactoring limitations.  

**Manu Sporny:** the JSON-LD context is maintained by the WG.  
… it is not part of the registry per se.  
… however, there are contexts associated with each property.  
… so, previously, we'd decided that registrants needed to provide vocabularies and contexts with their registration.  
… that was part of keeping the goal of decentralization.  
… In the past that took a great deal of discussion time, so I'd rather not reopen that can of worms.  
… there was also a question in the Zoom chat about the controller document.  
… The VCWG's controller document was asked for by a subset of participants who did not want to use DIDs, but did want to use the Controller Document approach but with other URLs.  
… The Controller Document spec could layer into the future DID spec changes.  
… The question of what goes into the registry is a big rock indeed.  
… and one we should try to address.  
… There are people now passive aggressively suggesting that we have a registry is proof that it's not decentralized at all.  
… there's a more real concern that these registries were not meant to inhibit innovation.  
… which is why the naming conflicts are allowed...though discouraged.  
… At this point, there are many things in here worked on by others, and we include them here by design.  
… but that's concerning to some folks.  

**Daniel Burnett:** I haven't been able to follow things closely.  
… but if we look at a W3C registry, there may be more than one registries.  
… this document includes several registries.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1 for splitting the current registry into multiple resources.

**Christopher Allen:** I wanted to point people to the spec registries issue.  
… my response there is more about the DID method name portion.  
… but I was really hoping there'd be more ideas on that topic.  
… there are lots of these suggestions.  
… whatever your particular "thing" is, it'd be helpful to learn more about them.  

> *Benjamin Young:* .

**Christopher Allen:** that issue is currently the best place to chat.  

**Benjamin Young:** We should pull that issue apart into multiple topics, there's a growing list, cramming into that one issue might be difficult.  

**Manu Sporny:** +1 to bigbluehat's suggestion.  
… we need to make a decision on if we're keeping Verification Methods in the DID Registry or moving it to the VC Spec Registry.  
… it's arguable it should be in neither place...but in a Data Integrity Registry.  
… that one sticks out like a sore thumb.  
… DID resolution is another one.  
… there are arguments for and against.  
… we might want a DID methods reg, DID resolutions, and potentially a Data Integrity registry.  
… that should give clearer lines around this document.  
… concerning Joe's suggestion to rename it to a "directory".  
… I didn't originally think it was needed, but the ongoing sniping about the "centralization" that the word "registry" applies to some.  
… using "directory" may clear the air.  
… it's useful to have this, but maybe there's a way to alleviate that concern.  
… I do have concerns about multiple documents.  

> *Christopher Allen:* +1 to a single GitHub repo.

**Manu Sporny:** but we could make that work with a single repo, perhaps.  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to single repo.

**Manu Sporny:** I'm still on the fence about the W3C registry process. I think it should be one, but we need a way to signal this is not a police file.  
… It's documentation to help implementers. We can say that in the doc and that should make it clearer.  

**Joe Andrieu:** +1 to pretty much everything Manu said.  
… I still like "directory".  
… but I do think we should use the W3C registry process.  
… to be part of how that works and gets on its feet.  
… I do think multiple registries would be helpful.  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to what JoeAndrieu said.

**Christopher Allen:** I've been calling these "provisional".  
… simply reserving the space.  
… maybe call that one the directory.  
… but then have a separate one that says "here is a registry of methods that pass some tests around the DID resolution spec".  
… we can say you can still work with whatever.  
… but the onramp would be through the "provisional" spec (what we have now) and then into this test-based registry.  
… then other groups could have their own registries.  
… but to keep that entirely independent of the directory.  

> *Manu Sporny:* Note that we do have status info for each entry: [https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/blob/main/tooling/did-method-registry-entry.yml#L15-L21](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/blob/main/tooling/did-method-registry-entry.yml#L15-L21).

**Daniel Burnett:** there are different kinds of registries.  
… some are first come; first served.  

> *Manu Sporny:* We don't have "provisional", but we do have "registered" (which means the same thing)... we also have "withdrawn" and "deprecated".

**Daniel Burnett:** others require review.  

**Ivan Herman:** we need to understand what the W3C registry gives us.  
… I can't say much about its value other than it comes with the W3C stamp on it.  
… the registry policy has to be voted on by the AC.  
… is this helpful or not?  
… we should discuss.  
… but I don't take using the W3C process as a "given".  

**Manu Sporny:** a few things we may already have consensus around.  
… splitting the registry into multiple docs.  
… we do need to discuss whether to use the W3C process.  
… deciding that may help with other concerns like the word "provisional".  
… many are easy search and replace.  
… we just need to confirm consensus.  
… we can put timeouts on the registrations easily.  
… and if we go with the W3C registration process, it'll just be more process--so we should discuss.  

### 4. Up Next: DID Resolution.
{: #section4}

**Daniel Burnett:** this is just the beginning.  
… please feel free to file more issues.  
… Markus is going to be presenting more background next week.  
… This is the beginning, not the end. Please contribute.  
… any final questions?  
… ok. Thank you manu for presenting and bigbluehat for scribing.  
… look forward to speaking with you all again soon!  
… my pleasure. :).  

---


